Instagram is about to change forever and
maybe not for the better. Since pretty
much the dawn of social media, us social
media coaches have been telling you that
social media is free and this
opportunity will not be around forever.
And unfortunately, that might finally be
coming true. Instagram is rolling out a
new subscription called Instagram Plus,
which will give subscribers preferential
treatment from Instagram, additional
views and bonus features that no one
else has access to. In today's episode,
I'm going to tell you more about what
exactly Instagram Plus is, how you can
subscribe and what I think it means for
the future of Instagram, if not the
future of social media as a whole. And
in case we've never met before, hello.
My name is Brock Johnson and it's my job
to help you figure out how to grow on
Instagram. I've helped over 50,000
business owners, brands, and content
creators grow on Instagram. And so if
that's something you want to learn to
do, not just more followers, but
generating followers who will become
customers, consider hitting that
subscribe button. Subscribing on YouTube
is free, but subscribing to Instagram
Plus will not be. Now, before we get
into the actual pricing of Instagram
Plus, what the heck even is it?
Instagram Plus is a paid monthly
subscription that's supposed to be for
regular Instagram users, not
professional Instagram users like
content creators, brands, and business
owners. And this is different than Meta
Verified. Meta Verified, which many of
you may be familiar with, it's something
we've covered in past episodes, is the
program where you can pay a monthly fee
to get the blue check mark,
impersonation protection, hack
protection, and those sort of
professional tools. This, however, is
going to be different, but I would argue
that some of the benefits of Instagram
Plus are actually better than Meta
Verified. Now, at the time that I'm
recording this, Instagram Plus is still
in testing. It's currently being tested
in Mexico, Japan, and the Philippines.
However, there are rumors that it's
going to be rolling out in the US and
even worldwide very soon. Additionally,
the current cost varies slightly
depending on the market, but it's really
inexpensive. Whereas Meta Verified
starts at around 10 to 15 US dollars per
month, Instagram Plus is only about 1 to
2 US dollars per month. But like I said
a few times, it appears that Instagram
Plus will not be available for
professional profiles. And a
professional profile is either a creator
account or a business account, which for
most of you watching this is probably
what you have. It's what I've
recommended for years that you switch to
because professional profiles, be it
creator or business, get additional
tools and features, more insights, and
just more control than a normal public
regular everyday account. But, now
they're rolling out Instagram Plus as a
way to make Instagram a little bit more
interactive, make it more fun, give
additional features, and of course
generate extra revenue from the average
regular user. But, I think you'll agree
with me as I list off some of these
features, these are things that business
owners, content creators, and brands
would really love to have. I might even
be so bold as to say that these features
are so worth it, they're so valuable,
you might even want to downgrade, so to
speak, from a professional profile back
to just a regular public Instagram
account so that you can subscribe to
Instagram Plus. And enough teasing you
with how valuable they are, let me just
tell you what these seven features are
that are currently included. Number one
is what they call ghost mode. It
basically allows for anonymous story
viewing, so that you can watch other
people's stories without your name
showing up under the view metric. Now,
it's not clear as to whether or not that
view will still count for the creator.
So, for example, let's say I turned on
ghost mode and then I watched your
story, it's unclear as to whether or not
your story would go up by one view, but
you just wouldn't see my name as a
viewer, or if that view wouldn't count
at all. This feature is clearly tailored
more to the average everyday Instagram
user who might want to watch their
friend's story without their friend
knowing it or check up on their
ex-boyfriend. But, I could imagine a
world where businesses, brands, and
content creators turn on ghost mode so
that they can kind of spy on their
competition and see what they're doing
on their Instagram stories without
letting them know about it. The second
feature that's included in Instagram
Plus is a new statistic, which will show
you how many people rewatched your
story. My question is, why is this not a
public feature for everyone? And then a
follow-up question, if it's not going to
be a public feature for everyone, why
can this not at least be a feature for
brands and business owners and content
creators? It would be so valuable for me
to know what stories are people
rewatching over and over again of mine,
because that would tell me that either
there was something in that story that
was really captivating and worth
rewatching, or there was something in
that story that was confusing and made
people go back and start over. Either
way, that's a really valuable insight
that is only going to be available for
average everyday Instagram users as a
part of Instagram Plus. Back in 2016
when I started my first real online
business, I remember that my head was
filled with so many what ifs. What if no
one buys this? What if I'm an impostor?
What if there's no market? What if I
can't sell? What if what if what if?
What if this is all just a big waste of
time and I'm just banging my head
against the wall. But what I wish
someone told me back then is, just like
you can imagine all the negative what
ifs, there are just as many if not more
positive what ifs. What if this works
out? What if this is my breakthrough?
What if this is what sets me financially
free? And thanks to one of today's
sponsors, Shopify,
>> [bell]
>> it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world,
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world, like Gymshark, to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks, from
inventory to payments to analytics, all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools. You can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those what
ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f.com/t r
And I want to pause really quickly
before I tell you the third Instagram
feature and let you know that yes, all
of these features are pertaining to
Instagram stories. Again, that could
just be because it's part of the testing
phase. Maybe Instagram Plus is only ever
going to be for Instagram stories.
Instagram hasn't leaked too much
information about Instagram Plus just
yet, but the third feature that will be
included in Instagram Plus is unlimited
custom audiences. Now, currently on
Instagram, you really only have the
option for two different audiences. You
have number one, your general list of
every person who follows you, and then
you have what's called a close friends
list. The close friends list is
basically anyone who you follow and they
follow you back, you can add them to a
close friends list. Technically, there
is a third segment if you have
subscriptions on Instagram where you can
segment stories or posts so that only
subscribers can see those, but most
people don't have Instagram
subscriptions turned on. But now, with
Instagram Plus, you're going to be able
to create an unlimited amount of custom
audiences. And this is another thing
that would be so huge for brands and
business owners. Think about the power
of being able to segment your viewers,
categorize them based off different
forms of interaction or different things
that they tell you in the DMs or their
level of customer or if they're a lead,
a warm lead, a cold lead. There are so
many capabilities and within the
business world, creating custom lists
and different audience groups for
different things is so so valuable. So,
I understand why this would be a feature
for the average everyday person, but I
really don't understand why this
wouldn't be a feature for brands and
business owners as well. And if you
thought those first three were crazy,
these next two are absolutely flipping
mind-blowing. Like these are worth $10.
These might even be worth $100 a month.
But again, Instagram's only charging
about a dollar a month for Instagram
Plus. And so, the fourth feature that's
included in Instagram Plus is that your
Instagram story can get a 24-hour
extension. Normally, Instagram stories
are only viewable for 24 hours. But with
this feature, your Instagram story would
be up for 48 hours. Now, of course,
theoretically, once your story expires
after the first 24 hours, if you just
have a normal business Instagram
account, you could post the exact same
story again, and technically, that exact
story would be up for 48 hours straight.
But there is a problem with that because
if someone watched it in the first 24
hours, and then you post it again, it
would show up as a new story, and a lot
of people would be confused as to why
they're seeing it twice. But not with
this new feature in Instagram Plus. This
new feature is going to allow you to
extend your story view time so that
people can watch it for up to 48 hours,
and that is such
game-changer because so many of your
followers, so many people on Instagram
just consume stories more than they
consume the feed. But one of the
limitations or even problems with
Instagram stories since their invention
was that they only are viewable for 24
hours. So, that means that someone has
to actively open up Instagram and watch
your story within that 24-hour frame, or
else they've completely missed whatever
you've posted. With this new feature,
you can essentially double the amount of
views that you're getting on your
Instagram stories, double the amount of
leads or engagement or customers
generated from your Instagram stories
without having to double your work. And
then, the fifth feature is the most
valuable of all. And in fact, I would
argue the fifth feature is the one that
is the scariest for its implications in
the future of Instagram, if not the
future of social media as a whole. And
that is that you will be allowed, if you
are a Instagram Plus subscriber, a
once-a-week spotlight for your Instagram
story. Basically, once a week, you'll be
able to press a button, and the
Instagram algorithm will prioritize your
Instagram stories for the next 24 hours
and move it to the front of the queue.
Basically, all those little bubbles at
the top of the screen when people are
choosing which story to watch or tapping
through stories, yours will get
preferential treatment. You will get way
more views, probably way more
interactions, way more engagement
because of this feature. And in my
opinion, this is Instagram's first step
towards a play-to-win model. This is a
model that has been warned about and
prophesied about by Instagram coaches
for years and was first introduced by
Elon Musk on X/Twitter a few years ago.
And because of the widespread success
and adoption of the subscription model
over on X, it's not surprising that
we're seeing Meta follow suit. And while
there has been the ability to boost
posts on Instagram for a long time, and
there has been advertising on Instagram
for pretty much ever, this is really the
first feature that I can think of that
we've seen where when you subscribe, you
will automatically get access to
something that gives you preferential
treatment. You can definitely make an
argument that other features in the past
gave you more views. Like you could even
argue that Meta Verified giving you the
blue check mark increased the likelihood
that people would click on your profile
or perceive you as a notable public
figure and that would give you more
views and followers and engagement, but
that wasn't a direct thing. That wasn't
like literally, "Hey algorithm, push me
out to more people." The only way that
you could do that was through
advertising. And like I mentioned, while
advertising has been around for a really
long time on Instagram, organic content
has still won. Organic content was
fundamentally different than ads. Ads
were something that were completely
separate and you've been able to grow on
Instagram 100% on organic content. And I
still believe that you're going to, at
least in the near future, you're still
going to be able to grow on Instagram
with organic content. Your organic
Instagram stories are still going to be
able to get views, but I can imagine a
world not too far away from where we are
today where if you want to get decent
views on your Instagram stories or
decent views on your Instagram Reels,
you have to pay a monthly subscription.
But personally, as a business owner, I'm
thinking about the usefulness of
Instagram Plus and how I can boost my
story for 24 hours. That's a
game-changer, especially if I'm an early
adopter. If I'm in a country like
Mexico, the Philippines, or Japan, where
I already have access to Instagram Plus,
or if I'm just lucky enough to have
access or live in a country where
Instagram does give us access relatively
soon, if you can be an early adopter of
Instagram Plus, and you can use this
boost my story for 24 hours feature
before everyone else is using it as
well, you're going to get even more bang
for your buck. As someone who cooks
about 95% of their meals at home, and
no, that's not an exaggeration, usually
the only meal that Tay and I eat out
each week is our sushi Saturday. What we
eat, what we prepare, it matters a lot
to us. And that's why I'm so excited to
introduce you to our newest sponsor,
HelloFresh. HelloFresh allows you to
choose between more than 100 recipes
every single week, including cuisines
from all around the world, and bigger
portions that satisfy everyone. Over 35
of those weekly recipes are high-protein
recipes, which fires me up, and it
allows me to feel great because I know
that I'm eating wholesome [snorts]
ingredients like sustainably sourced
seafood and 100% antibiotic and
hormone-free chicken. And of course,
most important of all is how it tastes,
and let me tell you, it actually tastes
really good. This helps me be a better
business owner because I'm able to eat
meals that taste good and help me feel
satisfied. I don't have to spend as much
time thinking or prepping each meal, and
I can make sure that I'm hitting my
protein goals in the process. Go to
hellofresh.com/byt10fm
to get 10 free meals plus a free
Zwilling knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan. The sixth feature that will be
available with Instagram Plus is what's
called a super like. It's basically a
special animation that you can give to
other people when you're watching their
stories. So, this is the one that I
would say is least useful for brands and
business owners. I guess it might be
useful if you're a brand or business
owner and someone is super liking your
story. But, for you to be able to super
like someone else's story, probably
won't have an impact on your bottom
line. But, then the seventh feature that
will be available with Instagram Plus
might, and that's the ability to search
for viewers on your Instagram stories.
So, of course, if you have very few
Instagram story viewers, this might not
be very useful for you. But, if you're
someone who gets hundreds or even
thousands of Instagram story viewers,
the only way that you could see who
viewed your story is to pull up a giant
list, the order of which never really
made sense. It wasn't like in
chronological order based off when they
viewed it, how close they were to you,
how much you interact with them. There's
there's no rhyme or reason to the order
of your Instagram story viewers, and
that just made it even harder to see who
was on the list and to look for a
specific name. But, now with the story
viewer search, you'll be able to type in
the username of any person and see
whether or not they viewed your
Instagram story. Now, I think it's
inevitable that eventually every social
network will become pay-to-play, if not
pay-to-win, where you're going to have
to be paying a subscription, a regular
fee, if you want to get the same amount
of views that you were getting 5, 10
years ago without paying. But, while I
do think it's inevitable, if there's
anyone from Meta watching this, please
don't do this. Please don't continue to
roll out Instagram Plus. Or, if you are
going to continue roll out Instagram
Plus, consider removing that fifth
benefit, the one where you can boost
your Instagram stories. I think paying
for preferential treatment by the
algorithm is a really slippery slope,
where eventually the entire platform
becomes advertising. And I know there
might be some people watching right now
who are thinking, "Brock, when I scroll
through my feed, it already feels like
everything is an ad." And I get you, I
hear you. But, just imagine a world
where literally 100% of the posts that
you're seeing are determined not by
their merit, not by their engagement,
not by the algorithm's prediction of how
much you will like said post, but it's
determined by how much the person was
willing to pay to boost their post. So,
what can we do about it? What should we
do in the meantime? Three things. Number
one, continue to learn how to make
better content, more content, how to
increase your output both quality and
quantity, and ultimately learn how to
create content that is going to convert
people not just into followers, but
customers. And hopefully that's
something I'm helping you do every
single week here on the show. The second
thing that we can all do is try to get
on Instagram's radar so that they stop
this. Ultimately, if enough people push
back, if enough people make noise about
this Instagram Plus subscription, they
won't roll it out. And so, I plan on
making a post on my own Instagram. If
you see that, consider engaging with it,
sharing it, commenting on it. Consider
commenting on this YouTube video so that
it reaches more people. I know you might
be angry about the idea of Instagram
Plus, but don't hit the dislike button.
Don't hit the downvote button. If
anything, hit the like button so that
this video can reach more people and
more people can be aware of this. And
ultimately, let's help get this on
Instagram's radar so that they know we
see that this is coming and we don't
like it. And then, the third thing that
we can do is just be aware that this
might be coming. Ultimately, this might
happen. Ultimately, Instagram Plus might
be rolled out worldwide, and when it
does, you're going to have to seriously
consider whether or not it's worth it
for you to switch from a professional to
just a regular public Instagram account,
and then subscribe to Instagram Plus. I
will keep you updated here on the show
as we learn more and as this continues
to develop, as this story continues to
roll out. We'll see if it rolls out
worldwide. My fingers are crossed that
it doesn't, but I also wouldn't be
surprised if it does because I think
that this is inevitable. Thank you so
much for watching today, and as always,
happy networking.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Oh.